So continuing on
with our discussion
of the order of processing,
I mentioned earlier
that you have no control
or little control
over the order of processing.
But now we're going to
talk about the control you
have over the order of results.
And it turns out
that, as we'll see,
you actually do
have some control
over the order of the results.
So first we'll start by
giving an overview of,
what does it mean
to have results
ordering in the first place?
So first and foremost,
the processing results
in a parallel stream
can be controlled
more deterministically than
the ordering of the processing.
So this is very important
thing to keep in mind.
Programmers can
control if the results
will be presented in what's
known as encounter order.
And encounter order
is simply the order
in which the stream's source
made its elements available.
So using our example from the
SearchStreamGang case study,
remember, we had
situations where
we had the works of Shakespeare
coming in in a list of strings.
So encounter order
would be the order
in which each work
of Shakespeare
occurred in that original list.
So if Julius Caesar came
first, followed by Hamlet
followed by Macbeth followed
by Henry V or whatnot,
then that would be
the encounter order.
And you can dictate whether
encounter order should
be preserved or not when
the results come back
from the terminal
operation, say, collect.
Now, encounter order, or
EO, will be maintained
under certain circumstances.
And those circumstances are
the original source has ordered
properties-- the ordered
characteristic is set,
the order flag is set--
and if the aggregate
operations that
are used as part of
the stream pipeline
are obliged to maintain order.
And think-- just think back
to our earlier discussions
about how the stream's
framework internals process
a stream where you end up with
these flags that set properties
at each of the stages
in the pipeline.
That's what we're
talking about here.
It turns out that the
semantics in terms
of whether you get
the same results
will be identical irrespective
of whether the stream runs
in parallel or whether
it runs sequentially.
So it's kind of like if you have
miles per hour and kilometers
per hour, you can have a
car going the same speed.
But one will be read
in miles per hour.
One can be read in
kilometers per hour.
But it's the same speed.
The result is the same,
so similar concept here.
The semantics are
the same irrespective
of whether the stream is
parallel or sequential
if encounter order
must be preserved.
If encounter order does
not need to be reserved,
then you may get
different results.
But again, that's by design.
The main reason
for keeping track
of whether you want encounter
order to be preserved or not,
however, really comes
down to performance.
So the more you need encounter
order to be preserved,
the bigger the performance hit.
The less you care
about encounter order,
the lower the performance hit.
Things will actually
run a lot faster
if you don't care about the
order in which the results show
up.